---
layout: post
title:  "Github will display movies, sort of"
date:   2017-10-03
categories: posts
author: devonorourke
tags: 'computery'
---

In creating *'how to'* posts I've found that there are plenty of times where a screen capture would save me *loads* of time rather than typing out step by step instructions. While static screen grabs are often used, there are moments where a video recording of my screen would be much more helpful. Unfortunately the Markdown syntax used within these Github-hosted pages doesn't allow for the import of certain file types; namely video-style formats of any kind. Bummer.  

Fortunately there is a workaround - you can import .gif files and treat them just like static images as far as the Markdown syntax is concerned. My workflow for generating through publishing .gif files in a Markdown style format is as follows.  

## Step 1 - Make your movie
I have a Mac, which has Quicktime, which is just about all I ever need to do basic screen capture work. See [this tutorial](http://etc.usf.edu/techease/4all/getting-started/creating-screen-recordings-with-quicktime-player/) for one example (there are many) using such an approach. Ultimately you need to generate a .mov file to carry on to **Step 2** next.  

## Step 2 - Install software to convert .mov file to .gif
Thanks to Alex D for this *suuuper* easy to use piece of software: [screengif](https://github.com/dergachev/screengif) Install instructions are provided on the default README.md page, but note you're going to have to also install a few dependencies. In case that's unfamiliar I'll walk you through it a few ways starting from the ground up. I've found his existing instructions are outdated if you're using a Mac OS >= Sierra, which I'll point out explicitly below:

> To the impatient - see [his page](https://github.com/dergachev/screengif) for a quick Docker-based implementation if you know what you're doing...  

- Do you have the Homebrew package manager installed? Great - this is goign to be easy. Use Conda or something else? You'll have to look elsewhere.  
  - No Homebrew? See my [earlier blog post](https://devonorourke.github.io/2017-10-05-freshStart/) about install options including Homebrew.
  - No package mamanger at all? - [here's a primer](https://www.slant.co/topics/511/~best-mac-package-managers)  

  > Note that I've advocated using [Conda](https://conda.io/docs/index.html) for install of packages in other blog posts.

- Do you have Ruby installed? If yes, proceed.
  - No? See lots of alternative [install info here](http://railsapps.github.io/installrubyonrails-mac.html), but I'm assuming you're doing it either the Brew way:  
  ```
  brew install ruby
  ```

If you're set up with Homebrew, install of the program is a breeze and almost follows his instructions exactly:
```
## install xquartz if you haven't already:
brew cask install xquartz
open /opt/homebrew-cask/Caskroom/xquartz/2.7.9/XQuartz.pkg # runs the XQuartz installer

## install program and other dependencies
brew install ffmpeg gifsicle pkg-config   # note we have dropped install of imagemagick
brew install imagemagick@6 && brew link imagemagick@6 --force # critical extra line for newer Mac OS'
gem install screengif
```

You'll notice instructions above are slightly different from the default instructions in two ways:
- 1) I've taken out the `imagemagick` program from the default install with `brew install ...`  
- 2) I've added a line: the `brew install imagemagick@6 && brew link ...`. Turns out that without running that extra line you'll get an error message if you try to run `screengif` because apparently something about the `imagemagick` program by itself fails to coordinate with `Ruby`. See [this post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39494672/rmagick-installation-cant-find-magickwand-h) for an extended discussion. Those changes should sufficiently allow you to install the program. You can test this with:  
```
screengif
```
Which should print out the help menu.  

## Step 3 - run the software


## Step 4 - insert a .gif file with Markdown syntax
