---
layout: post
title:  "Bat diet analyses"
date:   2018-01-14
categories: posts
author: devonorourke
tags: 'research'
---

# Overview

Though briefly outlined in the [doing](http://www.outermostlab.com/doing/) section of the site, I wanted to provide a separate page dedicated to more indepth anaylses of the bat diet work. The following page will be continually updated to incorporate data and context to this work as information becomes available. In addition, though the bulk of the data associated with the bat diet work focuses on guano sampled from New Hampshire, there are many other small projects that have incorporated these molecular and bioinformatic methods. These include analyzing bat diets in Central America, bird diets in New England, and a bunch of other cool studies in Hawaii (which I was not fortunate enough to actually collect myself...).  

Each of these projects work under the same principle: an insectivorous animal eats and poops, their guano is collected, DNA is collected from the guano, and then molecular tools are used to amplify the insect DNA present in the guano.

# Methods

With respect to the guano collection, the bulk of the work was performed by citizen scientists during the summers of 2015 and 2016. Volunteers performing collections received a free kit which contained the necessary instructions and tools required to complete three months of guano sampling. Collecting samples is a quick and easy process which requires a few minutes once per week to place individual guano pellets in a small tube containing a nontoxic salt solution.  

https://youtu.be/9BkIV_ANeC4

The process begins by identifying the area in your building with the greatest likelihood of guano deposits (a.k.a. where is the biggest pile of poop?). The area is swept clean and a plastic sheet is secured to the floor. Each week participants transfer individual pellets into collection tubes; after 4 weeks of sampling, this box of the samples is mailed to our lab and we perform the molecular tests required to obtain the identities of the insects and bat species associated with the guano.

https://youtu.be/jE1gDA38v0k

# Results
